# 14. Access Control with PortSwigger

## Access Control

Check the authenticated user is allowed to carry out the action that they are attempting.

Before performing user actions, the server is validating the user privileges/permissions.

OR

* Before performing user actions, the server is validating the user privileges/permissions.

### Terminologies

* Authentication: Verify the username and password are valid. (WHO ARE YOU).
* Authorization: Verify if the user has permission to performing certain action is performed.
* Accounting: Logs data of authenticated and authorized user activity.
* Session Management: A randomly generated string used as a user credentials every time certain action is performed.
  * A User can’t put credentials every time certain action is performed therefore the server create SESSIONID in UserID Database, which generate a random string used the user credentials.

### Types of Access Control

* Horizontal Access Control: Prevent the user from gaining access to another user with same level of privileged/permission user.
* Vertical Access Control: Prevent the user from gaining access to another user with higher privileged/permission user.
* Context Dependent Access Control (Multi Steps): Prevent the user from at each step confirmation actions.

## Broken Access Control

* An attacker trick the web application authenticated user act outside of it intended permissions.
* Automated using BURP Extension Autorize.

### Types

#### Horizontal Privileges Escalation

An Attacker gain access of the same privileges/permissions.

#### Vertical Privileges Escalation

An attacker gain access of the high privileged/permissions.

#### Multi Steps Process

An Attacker gain access from the ignored on this step of access control.

#### Horizontal to Vertical Escalation

An attacker gain access from the user with same privilege then trick that user to gain access of high privileged user.

### Defences

* Prevent Using Defense in Dept (Least Privileges)
* Parameters Based Control: Store the Access Control privileges or roles in hidden field or Cookie or Query Parameters.
  * https://example/login?admin=true
  * https://example/login?role=1
  * https://example/login?username=wiener\&role=user\&password=peter

### PortSwigger Labs

#### Unprotected admin functionality

#### Unprotected admin functionality with unpredictable URL

#### User role controlled by request parameter

#### User role can be modified in user profile

Refresh the page

#### User ID controlled by request parameter

#### User ID controlled by request parameter, with unpredictable user IDs

#### User ID controlled by request parameter with data leakage in redirect

#### User ID controlled by request parameter with password disclosure

#### Administrator

#### Insecure direct object references

#### URL-based access control can be circumvented

Refresh the page

#### Method-based access control can be circumvented

#### Multi-step process with no access control on one step

#### Referer-based access control

1. Check robots.txt which has administrator-panel go to the administrator panel which is not secured and remove the user.
2. Check the source code which reveal the admin page go to the admin page which is not secured and remove the user.
3. In Cookie Admin=false turn into Admin=true.
4. Add new parameter in `/change-email`, `"roleid":1`
5. Change in user id paramters `/myaccount?id=carlos`
6. Check the blogs which result of user-id which is unpredictable and change it in `/myaccount?id=carlos`
7. Change the id parameters and visible in intercetions.
8. Password is visible in input html by changing the user id `/myaccount?id=`
9. Download the live chat transcpit and change the value.
10. Got access deny then use the `X-Original-URL: /nothing` and response with not found, then change to `/admin` which means using `/admin` to access `/admin` page then `X-Original-URL: /admin/delete` and in request `GET /?username=carlos`
11. Upgarde the user in `/admin-role` and `username=wiener&action=upgrade` parameter using wiener cookie in GET request
12. Upgarde the user in `/admin-role` and `action=upgrade&confirmed=true&username=wiener` parameter using wiener cookie in GET request this is the second step on confirming.
13. Use the referrer header with `/admin`
