# 20. Active Directory Installation

* To download the Microsoft server, use the below link\
  Website Link: https://www.microsoft.com/en-in/evalcenter/download-windows-server-2016

## Active Directory Domain Service

* It’s a database which store all the domain objects such as user account, Computer account and groups

## Domain

* It’s a logical administrator container for objects.

## Forest

* A collection of one or two domain that have a common ADDS.

## Organization Unit (OU)

* A Object for user, groups and computers. Its more like a File Folder.

## Domain Controller

* It’s a copy of AD DS Database.

## Services

* There are many applications contain service that host programs. These services run at startup or other trigger events. It runs in the background for a service to start it uses a service account. A service account can be local computer like built-in local service, network service or local system account or configure a service account to use domain based in AD DS.

## Group Service

* One or more service account in a domain.to support this function it required a KDC key.
* KDS root key on a domain controller.

```powershell
#Add-KdsRootKey –EffectiveImmediately
```

* Create group managed service account by using New-ADServiceAccount with the -PrinicipalsAllowedToRetrieveManagedPassword parameter.

```powershell
#New-ADServiceAccount -Name LondonSQLFarm -PrincipalsAllowedToRetrieveManagedPassword SEA-SQL1, SEA-SQL2, SEA-SQL3
```

## Group Object

* Many users need the same level of access folder. Create a group that has required user account and permission to the group.

## Computer Object

* It has many computers which the administer use to push policy.

## AD DS Forest

* It’s a Top-Level Container, an entire company networks its group one or more domain (Networks or OU) under one network.

```powershell
#Get-ADForest
```

from the Active Directory module for Windows PowerShell, displays the forest properties, including the current domain naming master and schema master.

* Multiply forest has trust relationship allows the user to access resources.
  * Trust is automatically created in the forest
  * Domain A trusts Domain B.
  * Domain B trusts Domain C.
  * Because the trust is transitive, Domain A automatically trusts Domain C.

### Trust Types

| Trust Types      | Direction          | Comment                                                                                                                                       |
| ---------------- | ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Parent And Child | Two Way            | Its Transitive, its created by adding new ADDS into existing ADDS.                                                                            |
| Tree Root        | Two Way            | Its Transitive, its created by adding new ADDS tree into existing ADDS tree.                                                                  |
| External         | One-way or two-way | Its Nontransitive , its add the external server or another forest domain into existing ADDS                                                   |
| Realm            | One-way or two-way | Its Transitive or nontransitive, Realm trusts establish an authentication path between a Windows Server AD DS domain and a Kerberos version 5 |

## AD DS Domain

* A Domain is a segments in forest, a branch in company its group users, computer and other objects in same database.

## OU

* OU are the folders, An departments in a company

## Structure of AD

* Top Level: Forest
  * Middle Level: Domains
    * Lower Level: Organizational Units (OUs)

## OU

* OU are like folder in active directory that maintain user, group, computer and other objects.
* Hierarchy
  * OU can have other OU inside.
  * Like a company department has other teams inside.
* Permission
  * Assign specific permission to specific Ous.
  * Like the IT guy which is different department and have permission for other department.

## How to Create an OU

{% stepper %}
{% step %}
### Open Active Directory Users and Computers

This is the tool you use to manage AD.
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### Right-Click on the Domain or an Existing OU

Choose "New" and then "Organizational Unit."
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### Name the OU and Click OK

You can then start adding objects to this OU.
{% endstep %}
{% endstepper %}

## LAB SETUP

{% stepper %}
{% step %}
### Using VM Ware workstation for Virtualization

After the Windows Finish up the process and restarted then power off the Machine Take Snapshot and Clone it. In the cloning it will ask for two options with link or isolated. Link one will be linked to the parent clone machine and take less storage the isolated will not be harm after deleting the parent clone and install VM Tools
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### Take Snapshot

* Right Click Take Snapshot.
* Name The Snapshot
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### Clone the Active Directory (DOMAIN CONTROLLER) for a DEMO Server1ADMIN

* Clone Source will be Initials Setup
* Clone Type will be Full clone.
* Machine is cooking,
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### DC Domain Controller

Install VM Ware Tools and change the PC NAME TO the choice one Right click in windows >> SYSTEM >> Change setting >> Workgroup.

Manage>> Add roles and feature

Checked on Active Directory Domain Service and DNS Server.

Adding New Forest
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### Validating User

NOTE:

* Design You Internal Network as per your requirements.
* My Design is where Bridge Network is used for INTERNET COMMUNICATION and NAT is used for INTERNAL COMMUNICATION.
* Recommended to give Static IP Address is given.

NAT Adaptor Configuration

Server01

Change the IP to Static and DNS to DC01
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### DOMAIN CONTROLLER (DC01)

```powershell
# net user server1admin P@ssw0rd /add /dom

# net user /dom
```

Server01(server1admin)

```powershell
# net localgroup administrators hexruinx\server01admin /add

# net localgroup administrators
```

Restart Now.

Login as other

Username: Server1admin

Password: P@ssw0rd
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### Adding server 2 in DC01

```powershell
# net user server2admin P@ssw0rd /add /dom
```

```powershell
# net localgroup adminstrators hexruinx\server2admin /add
```

Server2
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### Changing the Computer from WORKGROUP to DOMAIN

NAVIGATE TO WINDOWS >> DOUBLE CLICK >> GO TO SYSTEM >> CHANGE SETTING.

Adding to Domain.

ADD DOMAIN USER CREDENTAILS

Logged in Successfully.
{% endstep %}
{% endstepper %}
